# **√ñM√úR ≈ûENT√úRK**

üìû [+31 6 2555 7971](tel:+31625557971) | üìß <omursenturk@gmail.com> | üè† Amsterdam, Netherlands | <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/omursenturk" target="_blank">
  <img src="https://cdn-icons-png.flaticon.com/512/174/174857.png" alt="LinkedIn" style="width:20px;height:20px;vertical-align:middle;margin-right:5px;"> LinkedIn
</a>

## **Shortly about me**

Proven expertise in Scrum methodologies and Agile practices. Adept at
interpersonal communication and collaboration. Extensive experience as a
Product Owner, Business Analyst, Data Analyst and Domain Architect in
complex, multi-stakeholder environments. Proficient in managing
integration layers and APIs across various domains. Strong technical
foundation with a solid background in SQL and Python. Renowned for
conducting thorough impact analysis and providing strategic solutions.
Recognized for informed decision-making abilities, analytical skills,
effective coordination, and rapid learning capacity.

## **Key areas of expertise**

<table border="0">
  <tr>
    <td>Product backlog management</td>
    <td>Business & systems analysis</td>
    <td>Jira, Confluence</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Informed decision making</td>
    <td>Dependency management</td>
    <td>Miro, Notion</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Stakeholder management</td>
    <td>Requirement elicitation</td>
    <td>Ecommerce domain</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Communication</td>
    <td>Impact analysis</td>
    <td>Telecom domain</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Road mapping</td>
    <td>Relational databases (SQL)</td>
    <td>SaaS tools</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Product vision</td>
    <td>Python scripting</td>
    <td>Open source tools</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Data visualization</td>
    <td>Storytelling</td>
    <td>Jupyter, PowerBI</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>API documentation</td>
    <td>Event-driven integration</td>
    <td>Data synchronization</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>BPMN / UML / PlantUML</td>
    <td>Solution documentation</td>
    <td>Data value flows</td>
  </tr>
</table>


## **Experiences**

### **Business Analyst - Product Owner @[rb2](https://www.rb2.nl/en), Purmerend üá≥üá± (2022 Aug. - Present)**

Serve dual roles as Business Analyst and Product Owner, collaborating
with client Product Owners, Customer Experience, Product Management,
Marketing, and Sales teams.

Responsibilities include eliciting requirements, managing product
backlogs, preparing high-level solution documents, and writing detailed
technical user stories for multi-disciplinary teams, actively
contributing exploring and adding new technologies within multinational
teams.

Other responsibilities are, overseeing stakeholder management, providing
business strategy consultation, advising on application architecture,
helping the team to communicate externally and internally, creating
clarity out of ambiguity.

Here are some of the highlights from my spell at rb2:

*Re-platforming Initiatives*: Spearheaded two comprehensive web shop
re-platforming initiatives from inception to successful launch,
orchestrating project milestones, and facilitating data-driven
decision-making to enhance operational effectiveness.

*Data Analysis Contribution*: Proactively initiated data analysis
activities, contributing additional value to projects, elevating
customer satisfaction, and fostering a data-driven culture for strategic
decision-making by using PowerBI, various data sources (flat files,
databases), pivot tables and Jupyter Notebook.

*Python Scripts for Automation*: Skilfully engineered and deployed
Python scripts for automated monitoring of data integrations, enhancing
operational efficiency. Automated data extraction from a variety of
sources including relational databases and JSON/CSV files, ensuring
robust data collection. Streamlined report generation and distribution
by automating the emailing process to relevant stakeholders,
significantly boosting system reliability and stakeholder engagement.

### **Technical. Business Analyst @[G-Star](https://www.g-star.com/), Amsterdam üá≥üá± (2022 Mar. -- 2022 July)**

Partnered with internal Product Owners to gather requirements and
develop high-level solution documents tailored for the ecommerce sector.

### **Sr. Business Analyst - Product Owner @[Turkcell](https://www.turkcell.com.tr/english-support), Istanbul üáπüá∑ (2012 Aug. -- 2022 Feb.)**

Functioned within the CRM domain (SOX critical) of the ICT department in
the telecom industry, progressing from Business Analysis to more
advanced roles like Product Owner and Domain Architect.

Main responsibilities include managing application lifecycle (ITIL),
data model ownership, managing product backlog of the team and
dependency management for the entire domain across 10+ development
teams, while keeping close collaboration a dozen business units.

Other responsibilities were, improving team and stakeholder
communication by making complex technical details easily understandable,
being an advocate for the team for conflict resolutions and vendor
management.

Here are some of the highlights from my spell at Turkcell:

*CRM Database Design and Management*: Architected and implemented a
comprehensive CRM database for an in-house replacement project,
overseeing the rollout and successfully migrating 25 million customers,
ensuring a seamless transition.

*Error Monitoring Reports*: Developed scheduled working reports from
inception to monitor system errors, assign action owners. Distributed
these reports to the whole domain with exchange server integrations,
enriched with insightful diagrams with the help of Seaborn and
Matplotlib libraries in Python.

*Domain Architect Recognition*: Recognized as the sole \'Domain
Architect\' in the CRM domain among 250 engineers, demonstrating
exceptional analytical and architectural expertise.

*Pioneering Business Analyst*: Pioneered as the first business analyst
to write code and deploy it to production within the CRM domain, setting
a new standard for technical contribution.

### **Jr. Test Engineer @[Ericsson](https://www.ericsson.com/), Istanbul üáπüá∑ (2009 Jan. -- 2011 Dec.)**

Developed and executed manual test scenarios for product releases,
maintaining close collaboration with developers, business analysts,
sales, marketing and other key stakeholders.

## **Education**

[Galatasaray University](https://gsu.edu.tr/en) --
Engineering Management, M.Sc. 2017, Istanbul Turkey

[Uni. of Southern Denmark](https://www.sdu.dk/en) --
Manufac. and Engineering, Erasmus, 2010, Odense, Denmark

[Yildiz Technical University](https://yildiz.edu.tr/en) --
Industrial Engineering. B.Eng. 2010, Istanbul Turkey

## **Languages** 

English: Fluent Turkish: Mother tongue Dutch: Beginner

Important note: As an HSM visa holder, I will need visa sponsorship
until 2027 March.